Add monolog integration to symfony docs (#3137)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/php/guides/symfony/index.mdx

composer require sentry/sentry-symfony
```

**Warning:** due to a bug in all versions lower than `6.0` of the [`SensioFrameworkExtraBundle`](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle) bundle,
if you have it installed you will likely get an error during the execution of the command above in regards to the missing `Nyholm\Psr7\Factory\Psr17Factory`
class. To workaround the issue, if you are not using the PSR-7 bridge, please change the configuration of that bundle as follows:

```yaml
sensio_framework_extra:
   psr_message:
      enabled: false
```

For more details about the issue see [https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle/pull/710](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle/pull/710).

## Configure

Add your DSN to `config/packages/sentry.yaml`:

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
sentry:
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
```

If you **are not** using Symfony Flex, you'll also need to enable the bundle in `config/bundles.php`:

```php {filename:config/bundles.php}
<?php

return [
    // ...
    Sentry\SentryBundle\SentryBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];
```

### Monolog Integration

> If you are using monolog these additional configuration and services are needed to log the errors correctly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using monolog, these additional configuration and services are needed to log the errors correctly:
```

composer require sentry/sentry-symfony
```

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

> **Warning:** due to a bug in all versions lower than `6.0` of the [`SensioFrameworkExtraBundle`](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle) bundle,

Author: @ste93cry  Should we now remove the `**Warning:**`?

```suggestion
Due to a bug in all versions lower than `6.0` of the [`SensioFrameworkExtraBundle`](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle) bundle,
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, the box imho is more than enough to communicate that there is something important to read. I also noticed that the markdown for some reason does not work inside the box, you can see it here https://sentry-docs-git-fork-alexander-schranz-patch-1.sentry.dev/platforms/php/guides/symfony/

if you have it installed you will likely get an error during the execution of the command above in regards to the missing `Nyholm\Psr7\Factory\Psr17Factory`
class. To workaround the issue, if you are not using the PSR-7 bridge, please change the configuration of that bundle as follows:

```yaml
sensio_framework_extra:
   psr_message:
      enabled: false
```

For more details about the issue see [https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle/pull/710](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle/pull/710).
</Alert>

## Configure

Add your DSN to `config/packages/sentry.yaml`:

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
sentry:
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
```

If you **are not** using Symfony Flex, you'll also need to enable the bundle in `config/bundles.php`:

```php {filename:config/bundles.php}
<?php

return [
    // ...
    Sentry\SentryBundle\SentryBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];
```

### Monolog Integration

> If you are using monolog, these additional configuration and services are needed to log the errors correctly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog), these additional configuration and services are needed to log the errors correctly:
```

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
sentry:
    register_error_listener: false # Disables the ErrorListener to avoid duplicated log in sentry

monolog:
    handlers:
        sentry:
            type: service

>             id: Sentry\Monolog\Handler

Reviewer 3: Instead of using `type: service` why not use the [built-in `sentry` type](https://github.com/symfony/monolog-bundle/pull/313/files#diff-3ee12206c3b122be4593dbfdb19397c16b3d337f759fad3bde6c785d6f1261c0R671) and pass the `ClientInterface` as the `client_id`. This would remove the need to register the `Sentry\Monolog\Handler` manually:

```yaml
sentry:
    type: sentry
    client_id: Sentry\ClientInterface
```

Reviewer 4: That builtin type refers to the SDK 2.0, we're on 3.0. It may still work, though.

Reviewer 3: @Jean85 If it's any help, I've been using this configuration with `sentry/sentry` version 3 for a while and haven't experienced any problems.

Reviewer 2: The built-in type is creating its own instance of the hub on the DI container and does not set it as current hub, so all integrations won't work as expected. It should definitely be possible to improve the Monolog bundle to make things work in the correct way, but as of now our way of instantiating the handler is safer

>     dsn: "%env(SENTRY_DSN)%"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This is needless for the example to work, so I would remove it. In the first part of the page this is already mentioned and I think that further example should just add things in addition to what is considered to be already present

services:
    Sentry\Monolog\Handler:
        arguments:
            $hub: '@Sentry\State\HubInterface'
            $level: !php/const Monolog\Logger::ERROR
```

Additionally, you can register the `PsrLogMessageProcessor` to resolve PSR-3 placeholders in reported messages:

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
services:
    Monolog\Processor\PsrLogMessageProcessor:
        tags: { name: monolog.processor, handler: sentry }
```

## Test the implementation

To test that both logger error and exception are correctly sent to sentry.io, you can create the following controller:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Controller;

use Psr\Log\LoggerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;

class SentryTestController
{

>     /**
>      * @var LoggerInterface
>      */
>     private $logger;

Reviewer: Do we not want to promote best practise?
```suggestion
    private LoggerInterface  $logger;
```

Author: This depends on the PHP Version that it works and so I would avoid this. As the code should also work with older versions I would not use PHP 7.4 specific code if not really necessary to test the sentry implementation.

    public function __construct(LoggerInterface $logger)
    {
        $this->logger = $logger;
    }

    /**
     * @Route(name="sentry_test", path="/_sentry-test")
     */

>     public function testLog(Request $request)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public function testLog()
```

     */
    public function testLog(Request $request)
    {

>         $this->logger->error('My custom logged error.');

Author: ```suggestion
        // the following code will test if monolog integration works
        $this->logger->error('My custom logged error.');
```

>         throw new \RuntimeException('Example exception.');

Author: ```suggestion
        // the following code will test if uncatched exception works with sentry
        throw new \RuntimeException('Example exception.');
```

>         // the following code will test if uncatched exception works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // The following code will test if an uncaught exception logs to Sentry
```

    }
}
```

> After you visit now `/_sentry-test` this **both** errors should appear on sentry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you visit the `/_sentry-test` page, you should see two errors logged in Sentry.
```

However, this example is a bit tricky because the first error will be logged only if you are using the Monolog handler. Either we should specify this with a little comment in the code, or we should change the example itself to just use the `throw new` as it's enough to work in both cases

composer require sentry/sentry-symfony
```

> <Alert level="warning" title="Note">

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
<Note>
```

> Due to a bug in all versions lower than `6.0` of the [`SensioFrameworkExtraBundle`](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle) bundle,
> if you have it installed you will likely get an error during the execution of the command above in regards to the missing `Nyholm\Psr7\Factory\Psr17Factory`
> class. To workaround the issue, if you are not using the PSR-7 bridge, please change the configuration of that bundle as follows:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Due to a bug in all versions below `6.0` of the [`SensioFrameworkExtraBundle`](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle) bundle, you will likely receive an error during the execution of the command above related to the missing `Nyholm\Psr7\Factory\Psr17Factory` class. To workaround the issue, if you are not using the PSR-7 bridge, please change the configuration of that bundle as follows:
```

```yaml
sensio_framework_extra:
   psr_message:
      enabled: false
```

For more details about the issue see [https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle/pull/710](https://github.com/sensiolabs/SensioFrameworkExtraBundle/pull/710).

> </Alert>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
</Note>
```

## Configure

Add your DSN to `config/packages/sentry.yaml`:

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
sentry:
    dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
```

If you **are not** using Symfony Flex, you'll also need to enable the bundle in `config/bundles.php`:

```php {filename:config/bundles.php}
<?php

return [
    // ...
    Sentry\SentryBundle\SentryBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];
```

### Monolog Integration

> If you are using [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog), these additional configuration and services are needed to log the errors correctly:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you are using [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog), you also need these additional configuration and services to log the errors correctly:
```

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
sentry:
    register_error_listener: false # Disables the ErrorListener to avoid duplicated log in sentry

monolog:
    handlers:
        sentry:
            type: service
            id: Sentry\Monolog\Handler

services:
    Sentry\Monolog\Handler:
        arguments:
            $hub: '@Sentry\State\HubInterface'
            $level: !php/const Monolog\Logger::ERROR
```

Additionally, you can register the `PsrLogMessageProcessor` to resolve PSR-3 placeholders in reported messages:

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
services:
    Monolog\Processor\PsrLogMessageProcessor:
        tags: { name: monolog.processor, handler: sentry }
```

## Test the implementation

> To test that both logger error and exception are correctly send to sentry
> we can create the following controller:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To test that both logger error and exception are correctly sent to sentry.io, you can create the following controller:
```

```php
<?php

namespace App\Controller;

use Psr\Log\LoggerInterface;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;

class SentryTestController
{
    /**
     * @var LoggerInterface
     */
    private $logger;

    public function __construct(LoggerInterface $logger)
    {
        $this->logger = $logger;
    }

    /**
     * @Route(name="sentry_test", path="/_sentry-test")
     */
    public function testLog(Request $request)
    {
        // the following code will test if monolog integration works
        $this->logger->error('My custom logged error.');

        // the following code will test if uncatched exception works
        throw new \RuntimeException('Example exception.');
    }
}
```

> After you visit the `/_sentry-test` page, you should see two errors logged in Sentry.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After you visit the `/_sentry-test` page, you can view and resolve the recorded error by logging into [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) and opening your project. Clicking on the error's title will open a page where you can see detailed information and mark it as resolved.
```

> ### Configure

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Configure
```

Add your DSN to `config/packages/sentry.yaml`:

```yaml {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
sentry:
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
```

If you **are not** using Symfony Flex, you'll also need to enable the bundle in `config/bundles.php`:

> ```php {filename:config/bundles.php}

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure about this. Isn't the `bundles.php` file a Flex exclusive? IIRC without Flex you need to operate in the `Kernel.php` class, like shown in https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-symfony/pull/452

Author: `app/Kernel.php` does not longer exist in symfony 4/5. The new symfony folder structure is `config` and this is normally not depending on if you use flex or not at you would normally still follow the symfony folder structure with `config/bundles.php` when doing symfony 4/5, you just don't have the composer flex plugin which will automatically add it for you. But we could show both examples with `app/Kernel.php` (symfony 2/3)  and the symfony 4/5 structure in this documentation.

Reviewer 4: FTR the bundle now requires 3.4 at the very least: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-symfony/blob/d6a738f005b57a16f156f3ae1024ec874c21b2a4/composer.json#L26-L32

I would make the Flex approach more prominent, but yeah, showing the old way is ok too.

Reviewer 2: m2c: considering that the status of [`3.4`](https://symfony.com/releases/3.4) is security fixes only, I would not bother adding any documentation for it because I find unlikely that someone will install the bundle on such an old (and "unmaintained") version. I would rather focus our efforts on `>= 4.x` versions

<?php

return [
    // ...
    Sentry\SentryBundle\SentryBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];
```

### Monolog Integration

> If monolog is used some additional configuration and services is needed
> to log the errors correctly:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you are using monolog these additional configuration and services are needed to log the errors correctly:
```

```php {filename:config/packages/sentry.yaml}
sentry:
    register_error_listener: false # Disables the ErrorListener to avoid duplicated log in sentry
    dsn: "%env(SENTRY_DSN)%"

monolog:

>     handlers:

Author: As it the documentation is about how to integrate it in your symfony application, I would here follow the symfony coding standard where the indention is 4 spaces as all files in the same folder which they are created are the same. See as also the [symfony recipes](https://github.com/symfony/recipes) here all yaml files are 4 spaces. This are the files which are in the same folder this file is created.

        sentry:
            type: service
            id: Sentry\Monolog\Handler

services:
    Monolog\Processor\PsrLogMessageProcessor:
        tags: { name: monolog.processor, handler: sentry }

    Sentry\Monolog\Handler:
        arguments:
            $hub: '@Sentry\State\HubInterface'
            $level: !php/const Monolog\Logger::ERROR

> ```

Reviewer 5: Can we add a verification step, similar to [this model](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/#verify) in JavaScript?

Also, if we add this line to the end of the file, it will automatically list the associated supporting content:

`<PageGrid header="Next Steps" nextSteps />`

Author: That is a good idea I think a controller with `$this->logger->error` called would be a good idea here to very if its working.

Author: Example added to trigger and error and exception. (Both cases should be tested that the trigger sentry correctly).
